# sc-rnaseq_mRNA_count
This code was created to quantify mRNAs of interest in different cell types from sc-RNA sequencing data provided in Single Cell Expression Atlas. It is a supplementary information for the manuscript entitled "Species-Specific O-GlcNAcylation Profiles in Arthropod Support Different Mechanisms for Reproductive Success" - DOI:

# Contents:
.Rmd file: This is an Rstudio markdown file, which includes the code with an explanation of each step, that will enable you to perform your analysis.

# Brief rationale for creating this analysis 
We were interested in finding how many counts of particular mRNAs were present in different cells from Drosophila's ovary. To find this, we used a public Sc-RNA seq dataset from an entire adult Drosophila mel. (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/gxa/sc/experiments/E-MTAB-10519), generated by Li,H. et. al.,2021 , and integrated its information with the Drosophila ovary's cell types mRNA markers (that can be found in the supplementary data 3 from Kust,R. et. al., 2020). With this approach, we were able to find the different ovary's cell types, and and count on each of them the exactly number of the mRNAs that we were interested in the first place.

# What you will need for this analysis
- A normalized counts matrix folder (avalible in the downloads section of an experiment at the Single Cell Expression Atlas website)
  * Inside this folder you'll find the .mtx, .mtx_rows and .mtx_col files that you'll need for analysis.
- A .tsv file with the mRNA markers information for the particular cell types you want (in 1 collumn, where the first row is the head, followed by the marker mRNAs. Use the same ID language for marker mRNAs and the main matrix from the Single Cell Expression Atlas).

# Results you will get
* The quantity of a given mRNA (or multiple mRNAs) you are interested, in Counts per Million (CPM), in each cell type you want to look at. 

# Permission
This code can be freely used for non-commercial academic purposes. Any other case needs the author's prior authorization before use. Please cite this manuscript if you find it useful for your research.

# Contact
For questions or suggestions, please contact Bruno da Costa Rodrigues.
